How to guide on Dask-Nebari config (#79)
nebari-dev/nebari-docs: docs/docs/how-tos/dask-nebari-config.md

---
id: dask-nebari-config
title: Configure Dask on Nebari
---

# Introduction

> In this tutorial we will dive into the `Nebari-Dask` configuration details. Nebari config is essentially
> a `yaml` file which is at the heart of all things (most of them) related to configurations.
> Our main focus in this tutorial will be the `profiles` & `dask_worker` section of the config file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial we will dive into the configuration requirements for running Daask on Nebari. The Nebari config (`qhub_config.yml`) is at the heart of all things (most of them) related to configurations.
Our main focus in this tutorial will be the `profiles` & `dask_worker` section of the config file.
```

> ### Basic infrastructure details

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Basic infrastructure details
```

> Before we dive deeper in configuration details, let's understand about how are the core configuration
> components.
> 
> ### Core components:
> 
> - Dask-gateway
> - dask workers
> - Dask scheduler

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are three core configuration components necessary for setting up Dask on Nebari.

These are:
- [Dask-gateway](https://gateway.dask.org/): provides a secure, multi-tenant server for managing [Dask](https://dask.org/) clusters
- [Dask workers](https://distributed.dask.org/en/stable/worker.html): compute tasks as directed by the scheduler and store/serve results
- [Dask scheduler](https://docs.dask.org/en/stable/scheduler-overview.html): executes the task graph by coordinating task distribution
```

> ### How to configure dask gateway profiles?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuring Dask Gateway profiles
```

Nebari allows for the configuration of the Dask workers. Similar to the JupyterLab instances, you only need to configure the cores and memory.

When configuring the memory and CPUs for profiles, some important considerations exist. Two essential terms to understand are:

-  `limit` is the absolute max memory a given pod can consume. Suppose a process within the pod consumes more than the  `limit`  memory. In that case, the Linux OS will kill the process. `limit` is not used for scheduling purposes with Kubernetes.
    

> -  `guarantee`: is the amount of memory the Kubernetes scheduler uses to place a given pod. In general, the `guarantee`  will be less than the limit. Often the node itself has less available memory than the node specification. See this  [guide from digital ocean](https://docs.digitalocean.com/products/kubernetes/#allocatable-memory), which generally applies to other clouds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  `guarantee`: is the amount of memory the Kubernetes scheduler uses to place a given pod. In general, the `guarantee`  will be less than the limit. Often the node itself has less available memory than the node specification. You may want to check out this [guide from digital ocean](https://docs.digitalocean.com/products/kubernetes/#allocatable-memory) which also generally applies to other clouds.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The following is an example configuration:
```

```python
jupyterlab:
    - display_name: Small Instance
      description: Stable environment with 1 cpu / 1 GB ram
      access: all
      default: true
      kubespawner_override:
        cpu_limit: 1
        cpu_guarantee: 1
        mem_limit: 1G
        mem_guarantee: 1G
    - display_name: Medium Instance
      description: Stable environment with 1.5 cpu / 2 GB ram
      access: yaml
      groups:
        - admin
        - developers
      users:
        - bob
      kubespawner_override:
        cpu_limit: 1.5
        cpu_guarantee: 1.25
        mem_limit: 2G
        mem_guarantee: 2G
    - display_name: Large Instance
      description: Stable environment with 2 cpu / 4 GB ram
      access: keycloak
      kubespawner_override:
        cpu_limit: 2
        cpu_guarantee: 2
        mem_limit: 4G
        mem_guarantee: 4G
```

> ### How to configure dask scheduler?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuring the Dask Scheduler
```

> In a few instances, the dask worker node-group might be running on quite a large instance, perhaps with 8 CPUs and 32 GB of memory (or more). In this case, you might also want to increase the resource levels associated with the dask scheduler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For analyses requiring heavy compute, there may be some situations where the Dask worker node-group might be running on quite a large cluster, perhaps with 8 CPUs and 32 GB of memory (or more). In this case, you might also want to increase the resource levels associated with the Dask scheduler.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The following is an example of a Dask worker configuration with the Scheduler resources modified.
```

```python
dask_worker:
    "Huge Worker":
      worker_cores_limit: 7
      worker_cores: 6
      worker_memory_limit: 30G
      worker_memory: 28G
      scheduler_cores_limit: 7
      scheduler_cores: 6
      scheduler_memory_limit: 30G

>       scheduler_memory: 28G

Reviewer: Is this a jupyterlab profile?

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Next Steps

Now that you have your Nebari instance all set up to run Dask, check out our user guide on [Working with Big Data using Dask](/tutorials/using_dask)!

```

Reviewer: Just guessing at that link to the page, you should double check that works
